README.md, before:

# **Vault-of-Knowledge**

<br>

During my journey to becoming a web developer, I've always struggled to make notes for myself. All of my notes were scattered both on paper and digitally and it was affecting my learning. I decided to create a repo to hold all of my notes and to use Markdown to make it more readable. These notes are still growing and being worked on daily, but currently I'm focused on HTML, CSS and JavaScript. I'll also be including notes on similar topics such as Markdown, Git, Figma, Bootstrap, etc. Lastly, I'll include some slightly more unrelated notes on topics such as Mac tips, CLI / terminal terminology, etc.

<br>

Initially, this was meant to be a private repository for studying, but I've decided to make it public in the hopes that it might help someone else as well. I'd also like to allow contributions via pull requests to continue to grow this knowledge base.

<br>

I am by no means an expert, these notes are a combination of MDN docs, a [frontend Udemy course](https://www.udemy.com/course/design-and-develop-a-killer-website-with-html5-and-css3/) taught by Jonas Schmedtman(Great teacher), Stackoverflow, my own personal notes and various other websites or web dev tips I've received. If there's ever a mistake or info that's incorrect or outdated, please let me know so I can correct it ASAP, or open a PR.

Thanks a lot for taking the time to read this, stay awesome 🧑🏽‍💻

<br>

**- Denzel**

Commit message:

Added KP resource
Added link to Kevin Powell's responsive challenge

README.md, after:

# **Vault-of-Knowledge**

<br>

During my journey to becoming a web developer, I've always struggled to make notes for myself. All of my notes were scattered both on paper and digitally and it was affecting my learning. I decided to create a repo to hold all of my notes and to use Markdown to make it more readable. These notes are still growing and being worked on daily, but currently I'm focused on HTML, CSS and JavaScript. I'll also be including notes on similar topics such as Markdown, Git, Figma, Bootstrap, etc. Lastly, I'll include some slightly more unrelated notes on topics such as Mac tips, CLI / terminal terminology, etc.

<br>

Initially, this was meant to be a private repository for studying, but I've decided to make it public in the hopes that it might help someone else as well. I'd also like to allow contributions via pull requests to continue to grow this knowledge base.

<br>

I am by no means an expert, these notes are a combination of MDN docs, a [frontend Udemy course](https://www.udemy.com/course/design-and-develop-a-killer-website-with-html5-and-css3/) taught by Jonas Schmedtman _(Great teacher)_, a free [21 day drip course](https://courses.kevinpowell.co/conquering-responsive-layouts) offered by Kevin Powell, Stackoverflow, my own personal notes and various other websites or web dev tips I've received. If there's ever a mistake or info that's incorrect or outdated, please let me know so I can correct it ASAP, or open a PR.

Thanks a lot for taking the time to read this, stay awesome 🧑🏽‍💻

<br>

**- Denzel**
